|| === CUnit Progammers Guide === ||
|| [writing_tests Prev] || [Index Home] || [managing_tests Next] ||

----

== 3. The Test Registry ==

=== 3.1. Synopsis ===

 Header:
`#include <[headers/TestDB.h CUnit/TestDB.h]>` (included automatically by <[cunit_h CUnit/CUnit.h]>)

{{{

  typedef          struct  CU_TestRegistry
  typedef          CU_TestRegistry* CU_pTestRegistry
  CU_ErrorCode     CU_initialize_registry(void)
  void             CU_cleanup_registry](void)
  CU_BOOL          CU_registry_initialized](void)
  CU_pTestRegistry CU_get_registry](void)
  CU_pTestRegistry CU_set_registry](CU_pTestRegistry pTestRegistry)
  CU_pTestRegistry CU_create_new_registry](void)
  void             CU_destroy_existing_registry](CU_pTestRegistry* ppRegistry)

}}}

=== 3.2. Internal Structure ===

 The test registry is the repository for suites and associated tests. CUnit maintains an active test registry which is updated when the user adds a suite or test. The suites in this active registry are the ones run when the user chooses to run all tests.

 The CUnit test registry is a data structure CU_TestRegistry declared in [headers/TestDB.h <CUnit/TestDB.h>]. It includes fields for the total numbers of suites and tests stored in the registry, as well as a pointer to the head of the linked list of registered suites.

{{{

  typedef struct CU_TestRegistry
  {
    unsigned int uiNumberOfSuites;
    unsigned int uiNumberOfTests;
    CU_pSuite    pSuite;
  } CU_TestRegistry;

  typedef CU_TestRegistry* CU_pTestRegistry;

}}}

 The user normally only needs to initialize the registry before use and clean up afterwards. However, other functions are provided to manipulate the registry when necessary.

=== 3.3. Initialization ===

====CU_ErrorCode *CU_initialize_registry*(void)====

 The active CUnit test registry must be initialized before use. The user should call CU_initialize_registry() before calling any other CUnit functions. Failure to do so will likely result in a crash.
 An error status code is returned:

|| CUE_SUCCESS || initialization was successful. ||
|| CUE_NOMEMORY || memory allocation failed. ||

====CU_BOOL *CU_registry_initialized*(void)====

 This function can be used to check whether the registry has been initialized. This may be useful if the registry setup is distributed over multiple files that need to make sure the registry is ready for test registration.

=== 3.4. Cleanup ===

====void *CU_cleanup_registry*(void)====

 When testing is complete, the user should call this function to clean up and release memory used by the framework. This should be the last CUnit function called (except for restoring the test registry using CU_initialize_registry()] or CU_set_registry()).

 Failure to call CU_cleanup_registry() will result in memory leaks. It may be called more than once without creating an error condition. _Note that this function will destroy all suites (and associated tests) in the registry._ Pointers to registered suites and tests should not be dereferenced after cleaning up the registry.

 Calling CU_cleanup_registry() will only affect the internal  CU_TestRegistry maintained by the CUnit framework. Destruction of any other test registries owned by the user are the responsibility of the user. This can be done explictly by calling CU_destroy_existing_registry(), or implicitly by making the registry active using CU_set_registry() and calling CU_cleanup_registry() again.

=== 3.5. Other Registry Functions ===

 Other registry functions are provided primarily for internal and testing purposes. However, general users may find use for them and should be aware of them.

 These include:

====CU_pTestRegistry *CU_get_registry*(void)====

 Returns a pointer to the active test registry. The registry is a variable of data type CU_TestRegistry. Direct manipulation of the internal test registry is not recommended - API functions should be used instead. The framework maintains ownership of the registry, so the returned pointer will be invalidated by a call to CU_cleanup_registry() or CU_initialize_registry().

====CU_pTestRegistry *CU_set_registry*(CU_pTestRegistry pTestRegistry)====

 Replaces the active registry with the specified one. A pointer to the previous registry is returned. *_It is the caller's responsibility to destroy the old registry_*. This can be done explictly by calling CU_destroy_existing_registry() for the returned pointer. Alternatively, the registry can be made active using CU_set_registry() and destroyed implicitly when CU_cleanup_registry() is called. Care should be taken not to explicitly destroy a registry that is set as the active one. This can result in multiple frees of the same memory and a likely crash.

====CU_pTestRegistry *CU_create_new_registry*(void)====

 Creates a new registry and returns a pointer to it. The new registry will not contain any suites or tests. It is the caller's responsibility to destroy the new registry by one of the mechanisms described previously.

====void CU_destroy_existing_registry(CU_pTestRegistry`*` ppRegistry)====

 Destroys and frees all memory for the specified test registry, including any registered suites and tests. This function should not be called for a registry which is set as the active test registry (e.g. a CU_pTestRegistry pointer retrieved using  CU_get_registry()). This will result in a multiple free of the same memory when CU_cleanup_registry()is called. ppRegistry may not be `NULL`, but the pointer it points to may be. In that case, the function has no effect. Note that `*ppRegistry` will be set to `NULL` upon return.

=== 3.6. Deprecated v1 Data Types & Functions ===

 The following data types and functions are deprecated as of version 2. To use these deprecated names, user code must be compiled with USE_DEPRECATED_CUNIT_NAMES defined.

 Header:
`#include <[testdb_h CUnit/TestDB.h]>` (included automatically by [cunit_h CUnit/CUnit.h]>).

|| *Deprecated Name* || *Equivalent New Name* ||
|| `_TestRegistry` ||CU_TestRegistry ||
|| ` _TestRegistry.uiNumberOfGroups  PTestRegistry->uiNumberOfGroups ` || ` CU_TestRegistry.uiNumberOfSuites  CU_pTestRegistry->uiNumberOfSuites ` ||
|| ` _TestRegistry.pGroup  PTestRegistry->pGroup ` || ` CU_TestRegistry.pSuite  CU_pTestRegistry->pSuite ` ||
|| `PTestRegistry` || CU_pTestRegistry ||
|| `initialize_registry()` || CU_initialize_registry() ||
|| `cleanup_registry()` || CU_cleanup_registry() ||
|| `get_registry()` || CU_get_registry()]||
|| `set_registry()` || CU_set_registry() ||

----

|| [writing_tests Prev] || [Index Home] || [managing_tests Next] ||
|| Introduction ||  || Managing Tests & Suites ||